---
title: 'Python Automation With Selenium Part 1: Building an Instagram Bot (2021 Updated)'
publishedAt: '2020-04-16'
summary: "Building an Instagram Bot with Python, Selenium, and Chrome WebDriver."
---

[View the video on YouTube](https://youtu.be/AWSz7rVKZbQ)

Video transcript:

hey guys logo to the video today I'll be
showing you how to use Python and
selenium to automate Instagram by making
an instrument bot so the first thing
that we need to do is download Python if
you don't have it installed alright so
for that I can open a new chrome window
go to Python org go to the downloads
page and you can get the live version
here secondly we're going to need to
selenium for that we can go to selenium
dev and again go to the downloads page
and get away as freshman here now
selenium is what's going to be power in
our project today and basically what it
is is it automates browsers and in order
to use selenium we're gonna need a web
driver so for that we're going to look
up webdriver for Chrome and go to the
first link and right now home page you
can download the version of Chrome
driver that you need so the version will
correspond to the version of Chrome that
you have so to find out which version
that is you can go to settings go to a
boat Chrome and you'll see it right here
alright now we're ready to start coding
alright so the first thing you're gonna
want to do is create a folder where you
want to store this project for me I'm
going to be putting it in the YouTube
folder on my machine here I have a
terminal window I'm already into that
folder as you can see we list all the
items in here you'll see Slee and python
now actually gonna make a new folder for
this project to call this tutorial
selenium and i'm going to CD into that
project now since we're using python
we're gonna want it to use a virtual
environment so I'm gonna be using pip
env if you don't have it already you can
stall it by typing through install
envy your on that I already have it
installed so this will not do anything
alright so there you go see it's
installed and up today and secondly
where you're going to want to create a
new environment so to do that we can use
pip easy hmm
install that will create a new
environment for us
and if we go into the folder you'll see
it created two files right here
secondly we go we want to now start the
shell to do that though thinking the
shell and now we are in our virtual
environment now we're going to install
our one dependency for this project
which is selenium we can do that by
writing pip energy install selenium all
right there you go now everything's set
up for this project now we're going to
want to make a Python file so we can do
that directly from the terminal with
touch and I'm going to name this font
dot pi there we go and now we can open
this in our editor alright so we're
going to be editing Assadi bot py file
so the first thing that we want to do is
import webdriver
from selenium next we're just going to
write some standard python boilerplate
code so we can get up and running
all right so basically what this is
doing is when we run the program it will
check this first this will execute a
strip so it will run the main method
which will instantiate a variable named
my bot to class spot and then it will
initiate the init function of class bot
which for now all that is doing is
printing it works so we can test that by
simply writing Python but
py you know see yet it works
all right so similarly how we declare a
variable my bot to be equal to this
class bot we can say for webdriver
so we can say self dot driver which is
our variable this could be anything you
want we're going to make that equal to
webdriver dot roam next we can call
functions that webdriver gives us so to
call this we need to write again so got
driver dot you'll see there are a bunch
of different functions here that we can
use one we're gonna want to use it get
see right there and the definition of
get is it loads a webpage in the current
browser session so for this like I said
we're going to using Instagram so let's
go grab the Instagram URL copy that and
paste it in here as a string literal all
right so now if we run this file again
it should get this URL one thing to note
is if you run this it will work but it
will close the browser right after it
finishes so to see that it's working I'm
going to add - I which is interactive
mode so after it finishes executing it
will the browser will remain open there
you go
so if we right-click and inspect
you'll see we get all the code behind
the webpage now let's do it again and
you can see this code right here
corresponds to this input so we want to
get this element in Python right so what
we're going to do that is by
right-clicking and hit copy and copy
XPath so this is the path to get to this
element and we can grab that in here by
using so dot driver dot find and you'll
see those bunch of different ways going
to find that element you find about
class name by CSS select your ID but the
one we're using is XPath similar to get
we can pass in like that and boom there
you go so after we get it we want to
send our username in right so the way
we're gonna do that is by using the send
keys method so we can type self driver
dot send underscore keys you can send it
whatever we want so let's see I'll send
it my easy way and one thing to note
before we run this if we run this it
will fail because it will execute this
instruction here
but before Instagram is actually loaded
it will execute this line so this will
fail even though it's there it will fail
because Instagram is not loaded yet so
it will think it's not there so to fix
that we can use a Python function to
sleep
so we can import that time so now it
will execute this line and then it will
do nothing for five seconds and then it
will execute this line so let's run that
see what we get
nice ringing error no attribute send
keys ah yes I need to initialize this to
a variable let's call this use their
name input equals that and then we're
going to instead of self driver to send
keys we want to send the keys to that
variable try that again
and there you go you can see our user
name is in there so next we're going to
send our password and we can do it the
same way we can just inspect speaking to
grab the XPath and we can do the same
thing to the different user name we'll
call this password book I'll set that
equal to the self driver judge find
element by XPath and then send keys
we're gonna send our password but we
want to keep this password to secret so
what we can do is we can send password
like this and input this for another
file so let's make a new file call this
secret stuff PI and we're gonna make a
variable PW and set that equal to your
password
so enter your password here or from
speakers import password now we can pass
that into there so let's run this and
see if it works
and there you go we have the username
and we have the password so the final
step is to actually click login so just
like we've been doing to get the X code
and here we gotta be careful when we
right click and hit inspect it brings us
to this did right here well this isn't
actually what we want to click what we
want to click is this bind so let's copy
that expand as opposed to copying the
did XPath
I'm going to click it all we're going to
do is call another function dot click
and this will click it for us let's see
if that works
there you go we can see it clicked it
for us and we are in so now we have this
pop-up that comes up and we want to
click not now on this so just like how
we click the submit button we can click
not now
you
and there we go looks like it worked
alright so in the next video we'll
continue to dive deeper into this if you
enjoy this video
just give it a like and share and I'll
see you the next one