---
title: 'HTML Basics Tutorial: Page Structure And Common Tags'
publishedAt: '2020-04-21'
summary: "Explore some of the common HTML tags like div tag, head tag, and p tag."
---

[View the video on YouTube](https://youtu.be/f8sDRWfT17M)

Video transcript:

how's it going everyone today we're
going to be taking a look at HTML and
going over some of the basics HTML
stands for hypertext markup language and
programmers use it to define the
structure of a web page so in HTML we
have elements that are represented by
tags that define the structure of the
page and what the browser does is
translate those tags into the actual
content so let's jump right in look at
some basic HTML so the first thing that
we need to do is create an HTML file so
I'm a visual studio code someone go over
here to the Explorer right click and hit
new file now you can name this file
whatever you want but it's convention to
name the file at the root of your
project what index.html and this is just
convention and it tells the browser that
this is the home page of your project so
we're going to stick to that convention
all right so next we can start looking
at some of the different tags so all the
code in this HTML document will be
wrapped in a tag that is called HTML so
the majority of tags are defined as such
we have a less than sign the tag name a
greater than sign and then we have
whatever's inside the tag and then we
have a less than sign a slash the tag
name again another Greer's inside and
you'll notice that visuals through your
code actually autocomplete for me which
is a really nice feature so that's our
first tag and that won't really do much
for us so the next time around we'll
look at is the head tag so the head tag
will not get rendered on to the screen
but it includes a lot of important
things about the web page such as the
title and
SEO anything like that so that brings us
to the next tag which is the title tag
and inside the title tag you can put in
the title of the webpage so for example
HTML tutorial and if we've run this in a
browser we'll be able to see this as the
title so let's actually do that since
I'm in Visual Studio code I'm gonna
right click and I'm gonna hit open with
live server all right there we go
we have our home page here and you'll
notice it's point one two seven zero one
which is my localhost and you can see
slash index.html which is the file name
all right so the next tag is the body
tag now the body tag is where all of the
content of our page will be alright and
that right there is the most basic HTML
structure you're going to get all right
so now that that's out of the way let's
jump into some of the common tags that
you're gonna see so the first types of
tags are heading tags and these are to
display important pieces of text so
maybe the title of the page a subtitle
stuff like that so for these tags all
we're gonna do is h4 heading and then
you'll see we have a couple different
offers each one two three four five and
six
so there are six different heading tags
and these are just different sizes so
we're going to use h1 and in here we can
put whatever text we want so we'll try
heading 1 and you'll see it actually
renders in real time in our browser the
next tag is an h2 tag it's the same
thing as an h1 tag it's just a little
small
as we can see there you go and we have
the same with h3 all the way down to h6
so I'm not going to go over all them but
you get the idea and you'll notice that
there's actually a little bit of padding
around the text so if you don't do any
tag it'll still work but you'll see
there's no there's no padding right and
this will just display them right next
to each other so that's why tags are
useful all right enough with the heading
tags next we're gonna look at another
pretty basic tag paragraph tag that's
just AP and you can put any text in here
so we can say this is a paragraph there
it is that's our paragraph so we can
pair those tests together let me say h1
title page 3 subtitle paragraph and you
can see a webpage is coming together a
little bit
now another fundamental tag is the a tag
so say we want to link to Google and
when the user clicks on the text it will
bring us to Google well you can do that
with an a tag and you'll see we get this
H ref here and what this is called is an
attribute so all tags have attributes
that you can use with it and there are
just different things that go in the
front tag here that ah do different
things for the tag so a tag takes an
attribute called a truss and here we can
write the URL of the site so in our case
Google and then in the text we can say
go to Google hmm if we click it I'll say
can I get that's could we forget HTTP
colon slash slash go to Google
there you go brings us to Google now we
can now wrap this a tag in let's say an
h1 tag so now we have a link go to
Google but it is inside the h1 tag and
this is this will come in handy
wrapping tags and sigh each other
alright now that we cover links let's
look at images so the image tag is IMG
and just like the link tag took an
attribute this takes in the SRC
attribute in the alt attribute so this
is alt text for the image so if the
image does not load in the screen this
text will show and then the SRC is the
path to that image so the browser knows
what image to display so let's go grab
an image so I want unsplash right now
this is a great place to find free high
quality images so I'm going to search to
say catch image there you go
just grab this one you download it for
free I'm just gonna drag this right into
my directory we're just gonna rename
this cat all right so now to link to
that we start with a slash which means
look in the current path and then there
is cat JPEG now the image will display
on the screen but you'll notice that
it's really big and that's because we're
not giving it any attribute attributes
for width or height let's do that all
right there we go we give it a width of
50 in a height of 50 pixels that's a
little small just make it a little
larger
there you go that's a picture of our cat
and for the alt we can put have to image
and if it can't find this photo it will
display this so let's remove this T boom
there you go
cat image now before we go any further I
want to discuss comments in HTML so
comments are great way in any
programming language to write a little
description of what that piece of code
does so if you come back later and look
at it what another programmer looks at
it you know what it's doing so comments
in HTML pretty weird it's a less than
sign exclamation point - - and then
there it all completed for me but then
you finish it by - - greater than sign
I'm gonna side here we write it this is
a comment this will not render on the
screen you'll see if we do a key tag
paragraph tag right paragraph we will
see this the comment is not rendered
moving on to buttons so we have the
button tag just button like this and we
can give it text submit there we go this
is a submit button you're able to click
it but we can also define button using
the input tag which is my preference in
defining a button so if you just do
standard input this is text input so you
can pinch or whatever you want from the
keyboard but if we give it type not text
but submit changes to a button you'll
see the name is submit but we can give
it a value of whatever we want that will
change the text of it